Call to action

"Why has the entire landscape of cognition changed because of a new information technology?"

If you are like my friends and family you have no slack in credulity to offer an excited idealist espousing unchecked, grandiose, anthropomorphic neologisms. You may still find that you are curious, or perhaps permissive, and you would like to allow some generalist psychologizing of cutting-edge technology into your life. In that case; how is it that the domain of computer science has suddenly claimed a kind of superiority in the annals of thought, production & industry, academia, and the realm of neuroscience? What is the big deal? What revolution remains in our historically-bounded conquest of dimensionality, which began in earnest in the 17th century with Isaac Newton and the genesis of physics and calculus? What could this technology possibly have erected across the great gulch between our understanding of the world and the hardest problem of all; consciousness? It confronts the very essence of its own demiurge, akin to the enigmatic "hard problem of evil," that being cognition—a puzzle that has perplexed humanity for ages. Even the mere appearance of cognition gives shape to something unknowable, something which previously didn't exist, or if it did was only in its low entropy, pre-cognitive transformation state. The 'probabilistic' nature of reality that's been marketed for the past century, I think, is finally being revealed for what it is; our best attempts at acting, not-as-humans, but as artificial inteligence. I think the time has come and that we are evolving, as a species, a new augmentation to the frontal cortex, the thing that makes us 'the most human' and which this technology was based on and which has its hand in every human hypothesis and adumbration. I don't think of AI as specifically non-human - I see it as an extension of individual minds. Hypnagogic scaffolding of a lower minds genesis - the thing that makes it artificial inteligence is its shape and how it adds floors and new levels to to our whole selves; thuroughly packaging that which Jung might call the 'scientific truths' and thereby freeing our epigentic, hormonal, explicitly human minds to focus on whatever it is we are calling the other kind of truths, the ones that truly define each individual and which actually define ones character and beliefs outside of the need of any science, of any artificial inteligence.

Well now we find ourselves in a world where machines are becoming increasingly capable of navigating complex, probabilistic systems and it is becoming clear that the human mind is not suited to relying solely on a hyper-analytical, probabilistic model, and that our models and our best suppositions will always break down at the hard problem of each and every individual consciousness. While statistics and the scientific method of the collegiate bourgeoisie responsible for the think tanks, the punditry and the codification of law have had their clear beinifits, they inevitably result in de-humanization, repression, and oppression in-addition to whatever the actual-intended goals for their functions. They are no longer needed and may retire in a sufficiently rich probabilistic system such as the one that AI is emerging into; with the standard model and all of the incredible and unlikely tools we have painstakingly created, contrary to our nature, with the statistical and scientific conquests of the 17th-21st centuries. With the possible ability to generate more rich and complex rules and laws than any single mind, task force, committee, institution, or even any entire field of study can achieve today, AI offers a glimpse of a more equitable and just manner of systematizing and organizing a living society, free from the limitations of human bias and the balkanization of thought and epistemology. Making possible a time where differences and individuality of people is what is celebrated about the duality of separation and the improbable nature of individual consciousness, agency, and for lack of a better word; ability to effect ones own destiny within the greater system.

I'm sure that you already know the answer to these rhetorical questions; perhaps even to your own consternation, as news of it saturates the airwaves and the consciousness of a globe-spanning species with impossibly-rich networks and interconnections. Large Language Models (LLM herein) and the eponymous ChatGPT are indeed the topic and the star of this show.

 - LLM and the application of NLP are the most significant advancements towards AI in our lifetimes.
 - LLM is the 'transistor-moment' for the next generation of software.
 - The next generation of software, with LLM as a core element, will shatter the UI paradigm of the early 21st century and the UX rooted in the beginnings of computer science. It will even shed the trappings of academia and industry jargonification, as well as the veritable historiography of relevant texts and the countless minutiae of software design architecture.
 - Already, we are dealing with a Turing-complete and highly-capable new 'scripting language' that is functionally a superset of BASH, Python, JavaScript, and all the rest. This language is accessible to anyone with a smartphone, but the advancements have only just begun.
